 
 
There is no evidence that hydroxychloroquine helps 
Covid -19 patients. So why is Congress still discussin g it?  
 
By Ashish Jha  
Dean of the Brown University School of Public Health  
Nov 24, 2020  
 
Last week, in the United States Senate, the conversation was 
all about the drug hydroxychloroquine. There has been no 
evidence that hydroxychloroquine improves outcomes for 
Covid -19 patients;  some  studies  have found  that it causes 
more harm than good. The hearing and the theater around it 
reflect the disinformation campaigns that have undermined 
belief i n science. Neither Ron Johnson, the Wisconsin senator 
who is the chairman of the committee, nor his chosen witnesses showed more than a passing interest in evidence. 
Intuition and the personal experiences of individual doctors 
were the guiding principles. Early in the pandemic, President Trump referred to hydroxychloroquine as a “game changer”; “I 
feel good about it”, he said.  
That’s not how we practice medicine. We have to protect lives through public health measures while we await widespread 
vaccinations.  By endorsing unfounded therapies, we risk 
jeopardizing a century’s work of medical progress. Do we 
really want to go back to not using the best evidence to decide 
which treatments work? Do we want to let politicians prescribe 
our medications? Science and evidence are the tools we use 
to know what is true. They are the foundation of modern 
medicine and public health.  
(Adaptado de https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/24/ opinion/hydroxychloro 
quine -covid.html. Acessado em 06/06/2021.)  
 
Com base no texto, assinale a alternativa que responde à 
pergunta apresentada no título do artigo.  
 
a) Porque a propagação de notícias falsas confunde os 
especialistas e fomenta discussões prejudiciais ao avanço da medicina moderna.  
 
b) Porque a grande mídia se sobrepõe às evidências da 
ciência, o que leva a tomada de decisões para um âmbito político.  
 
c) Porque faltam estudos que comprovem a ineficácia da hidroxicloroquina como tratamento para Covid- 19, o 
que demanda novas pesquisas.  
 
d) Porque algumas discussões no âmbito político e 
administrativo são pautadas por aspectos subjetivos e 
não por dados empíricos.   
 
 

